---
title: "Asynchronous decentralized traffic signal coordinated control in urban road network"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/JournalPaper1-CACAIE-Asynchronous
date: 2025-08-01
venue: 'Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering'
excerpt: 'This study proposes an asynchronous decentralized coordinated signal control (ADCSC) framework in the urban road network. The asynchronous framework decouples the entangled interdependence between decision-making and state prediction among different agents, enabling signal control agents to proceed with coordinated control without waiting for other agents’ decisions.'
paperurl: 'https://bryan-zjc.github.io/files/JournalPaper1-CACAIE-Asynchronous.pdf'
bibtexurl: 'https://bryan-zjc.github.io/files/JournalPaper1-CACAIE-Asynchronous.bib'
citation: 'Zhu, J., Ma, C., Shi, Y., Yang, Y., Guo, Y., & Yang, X. (2025). Asynchronous decentralized traffic signal coordinated control in urban road network. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 40(7), 895-916.'
---
This study introduces an asynchronous decentralized coordinated signal control (ADCSC) framework for multi-agent traffic signal control in the urban road network. The controller at each intersection in the network optimizes its signal control decisions based on a prediction of the future traffic demand as an independent agent. The asynchronous framework decouples the entangled interdependence between decision-making and state prediction among different agents in decentralized coordinated decision-making problems, enabling agents to proceed with collaborative decision-making without waiting for other agents’ decisions. Within the proposed ADCSC framework, each controller dynamically optimizes its signal timing strategy with a unique rolling horizon scheme. The scheme's individualized parameters for each controller are determined based on the vehicle travel time between the adjacent intersections, ensuring that controllers can make informed control decisions with accurate arrival flow information from upstream intersections. The signal optimization problem is formulated as a mixed integer linear program model, which adopts a flexible signal scheme without a fixed phase structure and sequence. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed ADCSC strategy significantly outperforms the benchmark signal coordination methods in terms of average delay, travel speed, stop numbers, and energy consumption. Experimental analysis on computation time validates the applicability of the proposed optimization model for real-time implementation. Sensitivity analysis on key parameters in the framework is conducted, offering insights for parameter selection in practice. Furthermore, the ADCSC framework is extended to a road network in Qinzhou City, China, with 45 signalized intersections, demonstrating its effectiveness and scalability in the real-world road network.
